• IDS (Intrusion Detection System) - A device or software solution that monitors a network for activity that is known or suspected to be malicious and alerts network defenders about the activity. It does not take any action to respond or prevent the activity. Variations are NIDS (Network IDS) and HIDS (Host IDS).
• IPS (Intrusion Protection System) - A device or software solution that monitors a network for suspected or known malicious activity and actually takes action to prevent it or stop it. This feature of taking action to prevent the activity is what differentiates an IPS from an IDS. Variations are NIPS (Network IPS) and HIPS (Host IPS).
• SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) - A tool used to combine security information and event management in a way that allows analysts and network managers to more easily monitor it and make sense of it. A SIEM typically centralizes logs or pulls in already centralized logs from many sources so that they are consolidated and searchable for network defenders to visualize and analyze.
• EDR (Endpoint Detection & Response) - A solution that monitors end-user devices for malware and responds to prevent or stop it. We've talked a few times about endpoint devices and how they can be especially vulnerable. This solution is meant to help mitigate endpoint security issues.
• SOAR (Security Orchestration Automation & Response) - A solution that is typically made up of a collection of tools that automatically handle security operation tasks, like scanning for vulnerabilities and responding to incidents. This type of tool automates tasks that network defenders might normally do in response to a threat or incident. With automation of this sort, network defenders can be freed up to do other work and more quickly respond to incidents that get past normal defenses.
• Honeypot - A system (e.g., a web server) or system resource (e.g., a file on a server) that is designed to be attractive to potential hackers and intruders, like honey is attractive to bears. The idea is to put a honeypot out to attract an adversary and confirm whether that adversary is trying to target you. It can also provide valuable intelligence about how that adversary behaves in relation to the target.